# 2.678-Challenge-Fall-2023
This year's 2.678 EOY challenge is to create a line-following robot to track through a course as fast/ as long as possible.
The robot drives on state machine variables and PID controls. Some parts of the code were hard coded for this specific course, however, the PID code functions effectively.
We were limited to using just an IR sensor and a 2 motor drive train—a couple of comments about the robot and the Competition:
  - The IR sensor readings were as efficient as they could be, but the real control was how we used them. With functions to map the IR readings to normalized values, we calculated the line location from the sensor by using a center of mass function, with the mass being the IR intensity and the position being the IR number (1, 2, 3, etc).
  - The PID code was easy to implement after already experimenting with and using PID in the past. In terms of tuning strategy, we found it best to adjust the KP constant until we were confident the robot would follow the line, but not necessarily a curve. Then we adjusted the KD value until the robot would adjust to curves without being too shaky. Lastly, we tuned the KI constant until the sharp turns were no biggie.
  - Something that we were unable to overcome with PID we these test cases: dashed lines (white space between lines), hairpin turns, sharp right angles, and the infamous infinite loop (a perfect circle). This was overcome by using state variables and timing to get down the test cases that occurred at each stage. In the future, we would like to implement code that does not depend on time but rather on the physical state change that occurs. You can check out what each "Stage" does at the bottom of the line following the code.
  - In terms of hardware, the batteries would run dry fairly quickly, and the motors did not sound like they were put together correctly. This may have put physical limitations on our program's accuracy. In light of the competition, we feel like we focused too much on course completion and not on what we could have done to improve the quality of robot design (i.e. creating circuits to maintain voltage and save on battery life). This may be an advantage to implement in the future.
  - We would like to improve accuracy and precision, as well as better control for the different test cases.
Overall, this competition was a great learning experience and I hope to utilize my skills in circuit design, system control, and perhaps instrumentation in the future.
